This is one of multiple IP version 6 of trouble shooting videos in the typology.
We've been told that rodder one on the left is not able to ping the loopback of router 3 on the right.
So let's verify that ping and one face three we getting an unreachable message.
So let's have a look at the writing table.
Show IPV six.
We've got a default route to rodded to.
So when we use a trace route to that address notice the traffic gets to write it to but gets no further.
So we're getting unreachable messages.
Let's have a look at Rodda to ping 2001 face 3.
Notice the output.
No valid ranked for destination.
So let's have a look at the writing table.
So show IPV six ROFFT do you see a rat in the writing table for the loop back of rodders 3.
This is a connected and local Raat connected local.
There is no static route for the loop back of rightish 3.
This is a static route for the loop back over out of one.
So show run pipe include ront.
So here's the static route to rodder one has a default prompt pointing to rodders 3.
So what do you think is the problem here.
We have a static route configured but it's not showing up in the writing table.
What's the problem.
Let's have a look at our interfaces show IP B-6 interface brief.
Can you see the problem in the output
notice you give it to 0 1 is administratively down.
That's a problem.
So interface gigabit is 0 1 No shut show IPV 6 route.
Suddenly we see the default route in the IP writing table.
And if we paying 2001 face 3 the pings succeeds on the site when we do the trace route notice that succeeds.
So rather one is able to ping the loopback of router 3.
I don't forget IPV six is a layer 3 protocol in the same way that IP version full is a layer 3 protocol
layer 3 protocols rely on Layer two protocols and layer 1 protocols.
So show CGP neighbors would allow us to verify and check layer 1 and 2 and we could also look at the
interfaces on the router by using commands such as show interface gigabit zero or one that would allow
us to check if the interfaces up up
or show IP V-6 interface gigabit to 0 or 1.
This would show us whether the interface is up and also allow us to verify IP addresses configured on
that interface.
One of the hardest parts was troubleshooting networks is to narrow down where the problem is in the
network.
It can be something as simple as an interface shut down or a cable that's unplugged or a damaged cable.
Hialeah protocols rely on the lower layer protocols so you need to use the oocyte model in your troubleshooting
to help you find where the problem is.
This wasn't a layer 3 issue.
In other words it's not a routing issue or an IP version 6 issue.
It was a physical issue.
The interface on the road was shut down.
O.P. enjoyed this video.
If it was of benefit to you please like it please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.